Immersive Demo Guide (#11717)
gradio-app/gradio: guides/11_other-tutorials/create-immersive-demo.md

# Create a Real-Time Immersive Audio + Video Demo with FastRTC

Tags: REAL-TIME, IMMERSIVE, FASTRTC, VIDEO, AUDIO, STREAMING, GEMINI, WEBRTC

FastRTC is a library that lets you build low-latency real-time apps over WebRTC. In this guide, you’ll implement a fun demo where Gemini is an art critic and will critique your uploaded artwork:
- Streams your webcam and microphone to a Gemini real-time session
- Sends periodic video frames (and an optional uploaded image) to the model
- Streams back the model’s audio responses in real time
- Creates a polished full-screen Gradio `WebRTC` UI

### What you’ll build

> <gradio-app space="gradio/Gemini-Art-Critic"></gradio-app>

Reviewer: Maybe a video here where it gives a funny answer is more engaging here and then we place the link/embed in the conclusion? No strong preference though

### Prerequisites

> - Python 3.9+

Reviewer: Should be 3.10+

- Optionally sends an uploaded image (`gr.Image`) alongside the webcam frame

```python
import asyncio
import os
import time
import numpy as np
import websockets
from dotenv import load_dotenv
from google import genai
from fastrtc import AsyncAudioVideoStreamHandler, wait_for_item, WebRTCError

load_dotenv()

class GeminiHandler(AsyncAudioVideoStreamHandler):
    def __init__(self) -> None:
        super().__init__(
            "mono",
            output_sample_rate=24000,
            input_sample_rate=16000,
        )
        self.audio_queue = asyncio.Queue()
        self.video_queue = asyncio.Queue()
        self.session = None
        self.last_frame_time = 0.0
        self.quit = asyncio.Event()

    def copy(self) -> "GeminiHandler":
        return GeminiHandler()

    async def start_up(self):
        await self.wait_for_args()
        api_key = self.latest_args[3]
        hf_token = self.latest_args[4]
        if hf_token is None or hf_token == "":
            raise WebRTCError("HF Token is required")
        os.environ["HF_TOKEN"] = hf_token
        client = genai.Client(
            api_key=api_key, http_options={"api_version": "v1alpha"}
        )

>         config = {"response_modalities": ["AUDIO"], "system_instruction": "You are an art critic that will critique the artwork passed in as an image to the user. Critique the artwork in a funny and lighthearted way. Be concise and to the point. Be friendly and engaging. Be helpful and informative. Be funny and lighthearted. Be concise and to the point. Be friendly and engaging."}

Reviewer: Repeats of `be friendly and engaging` and `be concise and to the point` not sure if intentional.

        audio_message = encode_audio(array)
        if self.session:
            await self.session.send(input=audio_message)

    # Audio: emit Gemini’s audio back to the client
    async def emit(self):
        array = await wait_for_item(self.audio_queue, 0.01)
        if array is not None:
            return (self.output_sample_rate, array)
        return array

    async def shutdown(self) -> None:
        if self.session:
            self.quit.set()
            await self.session.close()
            self.quit.clear()
```

## 3) Setup Stream and Gradio UI
We’ll add an optional `gr.Image` input alongside the `WebRTC` component. The handler will access this in `self.latest_args[1]` when sending frames to Gemini.

```python
import gradio as gr
from fastrtc import Stream, WebRTC, get_hf_turn_credentials

stream = Stream(
    handler=GeminiHandler(),
    modality="audio-video",
    mode="send-receive",
    server_rtc_configuration=get_hf_turn_credentials(ttl=600*10000),
    rtc_configuration=get_hf_turn_credentials(),
    additional_inputs=[
        gr.Markdown(
            "## 🎨 Art Critic\n\n"
            "Provide an image of your artwork and Gemini will critique it for you."

>             "To get a Gemini API key, please visit the [Gemini API Key](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/api/generativelanguage.googleapis.com/credentials) page."

Reviewer 2: This is the URL I had to go to get a key:
```suggestion
            "To get a Gemini API key, please visit the [Gemini API Key](https://aistudio.google.com/apikey) page."
```

>             "To get an HF Token, please visit the [HF Token](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) page."

Reviewer 2: What permissions does the HF token need? Would be great to specify so that someone can generate a fine-grained token.
